[Music]
okie-dokie have a question for you what
do some French restaurants the open sea
a small town in West Virginia and your
favorite rock band concert have in
common all these are just some of the
places where your cell phone won't work
for different reasons really just check
out my list number one the open sea
unless you're traveling on a huge cruise
ship that has its own satellite based
technology to let you stay on the grid
the open sea is mostly one massive
coverage gap this is because of how the
cell phone system works providers take
care of certain assigned areas setting
towers with multiple antennas to
transmit signals they all have a limited
coverage radius and because they are all
physically on land well gee that signal
simply can't reach your small yacht in
the middle of the Atlantic enjoy the
peace and quiet number two
pretty much any National Park some
countries have official laws banning
cell phone tower construction within the
parks boundaries so don't expect a text
and call from whole rainforest or
Sequoia National Park and share stories
from the Great Smokies or Joshua Tree
National Park to name a few
elsewhere the Department of Wildlife in
Srilanka asks cell phone service
providers to block coverage in Yala Park
during peak tourist hours they did it to
protect the animals and it's not because
the critters complained about getting
too many robo calls a lot of incidents
happen when guides spotted say a leopard
called others and too many cars rushed
to the spot number three Mount
Kilimanjaro now if you're planning a
climb to the top of the famous volcanic
peak in Tanzania don't expect a stable
signal all the way up there will be
black spots in places that have enough
bars for texting but not data streaming
because it's so remote and risky not
many wireless carriers are enthusiastic
about setting towers there so the best
you can do is plan your ascent in detail
before you get there by the way if you
have ever heard climbing on the top of a
hill or a mountain will always get you a
better signal
that's a myth number four the Mariana
Trench if someday going down to the
deepest trench in the world becomes a
common tourist activity you will be able
to livestream your adventures first the
water itself doesn't let cell signal go
through second if you're inside a
submarine and that would be the way to
go
it works like a cage that blocks radio
frequencies and electromagnetic fields
nevermind the pressure five socotra the
island of Socotra in the indian ocean
has unique alien looking plants you
won't find anywhere else but no resorts
and practically no cell coverage well
they call it one of the most isolated
places on earth for a reason number six
Green Bank West Virginia this beautiful
little town not so many people have ever
heard of is located in the radio quiet
zone here scientists are carefully
listening to galaxies exploding
somewhere in the universe using the
world's largest radio telescope these
sounds are so vague any electronics
would interfere with the process so
cellphones Wi-Fi and even household
appliances like the microwave are off
limits for both the locals and rare
visitors do not interfere with us or
thing number seven digital detox resorts
some people willingly pay to spend time
off the grid mobile phones and laptops
are officially banned within a half-mile
radius of white sand beaches at multiple
Caribbean resorts one popular hotel in
Ballack banned photos calls texts and
social media by the pool from 9:00 a.m.
to 5:00 p.m.
to let guests actually relax by it they
did it after becoming one of the most
Instagram locations with people only
coming there for photography now that
makes me wonder maybe concerts and
sports events organizers also want you
to just focus on the show and so they
somehow block the connection at mass
events but that's just a guess I'll get
back to it later
number eight Pitcairn Island only one of
the four Pitcairn Islands is inhabited
by fewer than 60 people they encourage
others to join them by offering free
land on this specific Island but even
super low taxes crystal clear water and
summer all year round don't inspire too
many people to join in maybe it's the
lack of cell phone service that's
discouraging folks nine ticaboo Valley
there is just one spot with some cell
phone reception and one public phone in
ticaboo Valley in Nevada there are no
cell towers in this desert for two main
reasons
there's a top-secret facility nearby and
it's super remote so if you ever decide
to get as close to area 51 as you
possibly can try to stay safe as you
won't be able to call for help during
your hike the ten at some restaurants
some restaurants charge their clients a
fine for using cell phones while eating
at a cafe located three hours northwest
from Marseille France phones are
officially banned when you use it for
the first time you'll get a yellow card
from the waiter second attempt means a
red card and you'll be asked to leave
the restaurant Wow just like in soccer
and they blow a whistle every time they
see you break the rule so that everyone
knows about it they do it to inspire
people to talk to each other and not
their gadgets
Wow if you keep it up do the waiters do
penalty kicks aimed at your table that
sign me up what would you think would
you manage to finish dinner at a place
like that or would they give you a red
card because you can't live without your
phone let me know in the comments below
eleven in a crowd you arrive at your
favorite bands concert you've been
waiting for years you take the best shot
ever and you can't share it online your
photo might have four or five bars but
nothing works out the same happens at
sports events festivals and parades and
even on a busy road during the rush hour
is this some kind of conspiracy to
prevent you from sharing your exclusive
content or sounding off the way you feel
about traffic jams in fact it's a
technical issue too many phones trying
to send and receive signals from nearby
cell towers simply overload the network
even just calling and texting is super
hard at such times and trying to do data
heavy things like sharing photos and
videos only makes things worse there's
also a mix up of signals when your phone
is trying to get through and connect it
to the correct network stadiums and
concert halls know about this situation
of course they are trying to solve the
problem installing extra small cell
antennas to boost signal coming from the
larger usual ones another idea is to use
cell phones instead of towers to share
signal Wi-Fi systems also help to
somehow unload the pressure on cell
phone networks 12 in hilly areas
sometimes you can find yourself on the
wrong side of the hill for phone
reception even if there is a cell tower
not far from your home
it won't help you much if the signal is
blocked by a hill or a mountain on the
other hand people living far away from a
cell tower they can see from the other
side can have a perfect connection this
is due to the fact that radio waves
travel in a straight line and don't like
any obstructions well I don't like
obstructions do 13 anywhere in bad
weather have you ever noticed how bars
drop during a thunderstorm that happens
because radio waves travel through the
atmosphere and when rain drops dust
particles and ionized particles get in
their way they mess up the signal in
fact even stuff going on in space
influence cell reception shock waves
from eruptions on the Sun can change the
Earth's magnetic field and send gas into
the atmosphere
hey I send gas into that never mind
anyway all that doesn't exactly help
your cell signal 14 in a fast moving
vehicle it's understand why you have no
reception in a tunnel under layers of
concrete but sometimes it abandons you
in a fast moving car or
this is because when you're traveling at
a high speed you change your location
way too fast for radio signals to move
between your cell phone and the right
cell tower bottom line just chill
it'll be okay soon trust me hey if you
learn something new today then give the
video a like and share it with a friend
and here are some other cool videos I
think you'll enjoy just click to the
left or right and remember stay on the
bright side of life